{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf0 2. Suppose you see the following scene and want to name one of the objects. \'93The small brown cardboard box\'94 sounds perfect, but \'93the cardboard brown small box\'94 does not. These are adjective ordering preferences: for any string of adjectives, chances are their order is non-arbitrary.\
\
3. Now, these preferences aren\'92t just robustly attested in English. \
\
4. Here\'92s a host of languages where we find exactly the same preferences. These are all pre-nominal languages like English where the adjectives precede the nouns the modify. \
\
5. Even more remarkable is that in post-nominal languages where adjectives follow nouns, we find the same preferences but in the reverse! At issue is the relative distance of the adjective from the modified noun, and the glaring question is WHY should we find these preferences everywhere we look? Something so robust \'97 the reasoning goes \'97 must evidence deep properties of the cognitive architecture of language.\
\
6. There have been two approaches to answering this question. The first assumes that ordering preferences are hard-coded in the grammar so that any given adjective inhabits a specialized syntactic projection. \
\
7. The other approach assumes that these preferences EMERGE from general properties of cognition \'97 this is the approach we\'92ll be focusing on. Unfortunately, these psychological approaches stumble when it comes to identifying and measuring those properties that matter. We distilled past proposals into \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
an intuitive psychological construct that readily operationalizes as a behavioral measure\'85\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
8. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'85\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 SUBJECTIVITY. The subjectivity of the properties that the adjectives name decreases as you get closer to the noun. Here\'92s what I mean: that box is cardboard. It\'92s probably brown. Whether or not it\'92s small is up for discussion. Small is more SUBJECTIVE than brown and cardboard, so it appears farther away. Now, to test our hypothesis that subjectivity predicts ordering preferences\'85\
\

\f1\b 9. We first need to measure the preferences themselves. We asked participants to indicate their preferred order for combinations of 26 different adjectives. So they saw trials like the \'93the small red chair\'94 versus \'93the red small chair\'94 and indicated their which sounds more natural. ~slide 19 ()step 1
\f0\b0 \
\

\fs24 To validate the preference measure we extracted 38000 cases of multi-adjective strings from English corpora and calculated the average distance of each adjective from the modified noun\
\
Plotting the corpus distance on the y-axis against our behavioral measure on the x-axis, we see that two the are extremely highly correlated, suggesting that we have a good handle on the preferences.
\fs22 \
\
12. Next, to measure subjectivity, we asked participants how QUOTE \'93subjective\'94 a given adjective was. \
\
15. To test our hypothesis that subjectivity predicts ordering preferences, we compared the preferences with the subjectivity scores.\
\
16. On the y-axis I\'92m plotting the preferences, so that as values increase an adjective is preferred farther from the noun; the x-axis plots the subjectivity scores, which account for nearly all of the variance in the preference data. Here are our friends \'93brown\'94 and \'93small\'94 \'97 \'93brown\'94 is preferred relatively close to the noun, and has low subjectivity; \'93small\'94 is preferred farther from the noun and has higher subjectivity.\
\
17. Now, at this point we\'92ve tested our hypothesis many ways, with different subjectivity metrics and different nouns.\
\

\f1\b 18. We even looked all of the adjectives from every multi-adjective string in the Switchboard corpus of English, so at this point we feel confident concluding that (last one)
\f0\b0 \
\
19. Subjectivity indeed predicts ordering preferences. Now, why should subjectivity matter? Well, here\'92s what we know about subjectivity\'85.\
\
20. Less subjective content is more useful for effectively communicating about the world: when you hear \'93brown\'94, the set of things you imagine is much more precise than when you hear \'93small\'94. Speakers are consolidating this less subjective, more useful content around the modified noun.\
\
21. And what THIS means is that we have clear evidence of a broad linguistic universal \'97 the regularities of adjective ordering \'97 emerging from a cognitive one \'97 the awareness of inter-speaker subjectivity.\
\
22. I\'92d like to thank you, and\'85\
\
23. To encourage you to come to the full version of the talk on Sunday morning in Lone Star A.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
OLD STUFF\
\
8. Here\'92s a taste: some say that adjectives with less context-dependent meaning, or that are closer to the noun in meaning, or with more specialized meaning, or describing more inherent properties occur linearly closer to the noun. We distilled these proposals into \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
an intuitive psychological construct that readily operationalizes as a behavioral measure\'85\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
10. We did four things. First, we measured the preferences themselves and validated our behavioral measure with corpus statistics. Then, we measured adjective subjectivity and validated our measure with a more ecologically valid task. First things first\'85\
\
\
\
10. We validated our preference measure by actually calculating the average distance of these adjectives in naturally-occuring examples. Plotting the corpus distance against our behavioral measure, we see that the two are extremely highly correlated, suggesting that we have a good handle on the preferences.}